One of the biggest concerns for homeowners is security and safety. In recent years, home video intercom systems have advanced beyond basic video cameras into more advanced technology that caters to the specific needs of individuals. 

Home intercom systems offer convenience and increased security and safety for your loved ones. The device lets you see who is outside your front door without opening it, answer the door remotely from your smart device, and know who is visiting your home while you are away.

These systems are exciting and valuable additions to your home, but how exactly do they work? How can they benefit you? You don't have to worry about it; we've got you covered.

How Does a Home Intercom System Work?
Intercom systems for homes include several components, such as a base station, which serves as the central control point. It can be a physical device or a smart app stored in the cloud and accessible through a smart device. 

There are also intercom stations, which feature a camera and microphone to facilitate two-way communication. To hear or see visitors on the other side of the door, the intercom stations transmit voice or video data via wired or wireless transmission (via a wifi connection) via their base station to the receiving intercom station. 
With a smart device and an integrated intercom system, you can open gates and doors for visitors at the touch of a button. In this system, an electronic relay within your intercom triggers a signal sent to the gate or door releasing mechanism, unlocking the door.

From comprehensive Access Control Systems to Video Intercoms to Commercial Surveillance, Recomm will find the best intercom solution for your home.
The Essential Features of Video Intercom Systems
Video intercom systems offer dependable, scalable solutions when you require them! In addition, they integrate easily with a variety of accessories you use every day, and you can view a live feed from your smartphone!

Take a look at some unique capabilities listed below...
All-in-One Solution
The Video Intercom Door Station is an additional IP camera within a connected NVR, which also stores recordings. An Intercom Indoor Station can be enhanced with an IP video surveillance camera and viewed on an indoor panel.
The Outdoor Intercom Station includes access control functionality that allows for multiple authentications. 
All-access control events, such as card numbers, small video clips, logs, and others, can be saved, and a report can be generated. Several detectors or intrusion systems can connect push notifications to a smartphone app that manages them.
Access Control and Alarm Functions
This video intercom system includes the following access control features: Visitors can gain entry by inserting an access control card into a door station card reader.  All successful access control card entries are visually recorded and can be uploaded to the platform centre.  Indoor stations can be linked to sensors for up to eight zones, and residents can arm and disarm the system using the indoor station. Alarm data can also be uploaded to the platform centre and master station.
Communication Is Made Simple. 
You can install emergency stations in-wall boxes and towers to call 911 or security immediately. Calls can be easily placed between rooms or offices within or between facilities worldwide. To assist visitors, master stations can be set up to act as virtual receptionists in lobbies.
Key Advantages of Video Intercom Systems
For many homes and industries, video intercom systems have several advantages. These systems provide practical solutions and a sense of security for a wide range of needs either at home or work, including the following: 
Crime: The presence of video technology helps to deter crime. It can also be used to apprehend vandals and thieves! Nobody wants to be caught on camera doing an illegal act.
Public Health: As the global threat of COVID-19 continues, every business requires an access control system to protect the public and help prevent the virus's spread!
Security: Easily confirm visitors' identities before they enter the building and covertly report trespassers or other security threats. Someone is adamant about staying? Simply push a button to summon security!
Security: This access control makes your employees, clients, patients, and customers physically more secure.  Decide who is allowed where with confidence!
Communication: Take advantage of enhanced, immediate communication between staff, teams, and visitors. Significantly faster and more efficient than sending emails!

At Reecomm, you can choose from our wide range of high-quality home intercom systems that are customised to suit your lifestyle and are integrated with your smart home system so you can take advantage of all the features it offers. Get in touch with us today to learn more or to receive a free quote. 
